#ver3_古生物学会2024高知_ポスター
#
# 乱数シミュレーションによるフィッティングモデル評価
# Applicability of Random Simulation
# to the Evaluation of Interpolation
Yuji Sode (IEP at North Carolina State Univ.)
Email: ysode@ncsu.edu
Email: yuji.sode@gmail.com
#
Quality and quantity of paleontological samples vary depending on materials
to investigate (e.g. Wani, 2003; Hammer and Harper, 2006; Mustoe and Smith,
2023). Sample data is occasionally accompanied with discreteness while
continuity is a prerequisite for the interpolation in paleontological studies.
Therefore, an approach that has tolerance of both discreteness and continuity
is required to evaluate the sample-model interpolation.
#
## Materials and Method
I. Error model Q was expressed using a random variable u
        Q(p) = 1+p(2u-1), where u = [0, 1].        ... (1)
A model with deviation F was simulated as a product of predetermined function f and Q
        F(x) = f(x)Q(p).        ... (2)
II. A sample data model was expressed by 20 percent of deviation
        F(x) = f(x)Q(0.2), where f(x) = (3x-2)^2.        ... (3)
A sample data set was generated as 100 sets of discrete samples through the sample data model. 
III. Four ﬁtting models f(x)^n against the generated sample data set were estimated using the least 
squares method with gnuplot version 5.2 (Williams, Kelley, et al. 1986-1993, 1998, 2004, 2007-2019) 
        f(x)^n = (Ax+B)^n,        ... (4)
where n = 1, 2, 3, and -1. 
#
IV. A value dL/dx that could distinguish 
the given ﬁtting models was selected for 
the random simulation. This value for 
the evaluation was deﬁned based on 
the partial curve length with length L 
between two points
        dL = ΣL -max(L)        ... (5)
and the horizontal range 
        dx = max(x) -min(x).        ... (6)
#
## Conclusion
The random simulation could evaluate the sample-model
interpolations that were based on the least squares method.
#
## References cited
    Hammer, Ø. and Harper, D., A., T., 2006: Paleontological Data Analysis. Oxford, Blackwell Publishing. 
    Mustoe, G., E. and Smith, E., T., 2023: Timing of Opalization at Lightning Ridge, Australia: New Evidence 
from Opalized Fossils. Minerals, vol. 13, (12), 1471. https://doi.org/10.3390/min13121471
    Wani, R., 2003: Taphofacies models for Upper Cretaceous Ammonoids from the Kotanbetsu area, 
northwestern Hokkaido, Japan. Palaeogeography, Palaeoclimatology, Palaeoecology, vol. 199, p. 71-82. 
    Williams, T., Kelley, C., et al., 1986-1993, 1998, 2004, and 2007-2019: Gnuplot 5.2: An Interactive 
Plotting Program. http://www.gnuplot.info/ (last accessed on 2023 Dec. 09). 
#
## Figure captions
### Table 1. Results of the least squares method. 
|Fitting models|A|B|Variance of residuals (reduced chisquares)|
|---|---|---|---|
|(Ax+B)^-1|-08.97E-02|45.23E-02|5612.88|
|(Ax+B)^1|50.97E+00|-98.81E+00|156.49|
|(Ax+B)^2|02.99E+00|-01.92E+00|119.89|
|(Ax+B)^3|95.01E-02|81.96E-02|125.26|
#
### Figure 1. Schematic diagram showing three interpolations based on different models.
#
### Figure 2. Graphs showing sample data and result of evaluation. 
A. Graphs showing sample data and results of curve fitting. 
Every point is plot of the generated data set from a model, which is (3x-2)2 with 20 percent 
of deviation. Every line is result of curve fitting using the least squares method. 
B. Graphs showing frequency distributions of ln (1+dL/dx). 
This graph shows frequency distributions of ln(1+dL/dx), which are defined using 3 random points 
on a given function f(x) or generated sample data. Every line is result of given function f(x). Every 
point is result of generated sample data. Each graph represents average of a 100 sets of results from 
random simulation. Filled areas or error bars represent standard deviations. 
#
## Figure 3. Schematic diagram of dL/dx. 
This diagram shows vector relations of 
dL/dx between three points. A length Li is 
expressed as a norm of a vector; Li = |Li|, where i = 1, 2, and 3. 
#
